okay the next segment is going to be
about the early parser early early
parsing is also known as a chart parser
it uses a dynamic programming method and
it has some advantages over the earlier
CKY parser
so the early parser was created by jay
early 1970 and one of its major
advantages over CKY is that there is no
need to convert the grammar into Chomsky
normal form
it works by parsing the sentence left to
right and it does this by looking for
partial completions of non terminals its
complexity can be very often faster than
or then cubed so going left to right it
looks for both full and partial
constituents so for example if we have
the so s goes to auxiliary dot and P VP
what this tells us is that so far we've
been able to find an auxiliary in the
sentence and if later we find the noun
phrase and the verb phrase adjacent to
this auxiliary who have found a sentence
so when reading a certain word K the
early parser has already identified all
the hypotheses that are consistent with
the words 1 to k minus 1 so here's an
example if later on the parser has found
a noun phrase in the example before it
will change its state to s goes to
auxiliary NP . vp where the period
indicates that it has found auxiliary
and the noun phrase and it's 2 needs to
find a verb phrase and if it succeeds in
finding it it will have found the entire
essence so the data structure used by
the early parser is also a dynamic
programming table just like CKY and it
uses columns that correspond to all the
words that have been seen so far so
here's an example of an entry in column
1 0 colon 1 in brackets followed by vp
goes to V P period P P what this means
is that this is in column 1 therefore
ways to processing word number 1 and
that the parse shown on the right hand
side corresponds to words 0 to 1 those
words match the verb phase part of the
verb
as shown in the example so later on you
from one to the end of the sentence we
found a prepositional phrase that means
that the whole VP will be found so the
dot separates the completed or known
part from the one that is incomplete and
quite possibly unattainable part the
three types of entries in the chart
there's an entry code scan which is used
for individual words for example de or
child there's a second one called
predict which is used for non terminals
and finally there is one called complete
which is used otherwise so here's an
example of a grammar s goes to NPV P
auxiliary noun phrase verb phrase and so
on and the words here are things like
book boys and girl and takes and so on
so the sentence that we want to parse is
take this book so the scanner here tells
us that from position 0 to position 1 we
have the word take from position 1 to
position 2 we have the word this and
from position 2 to position 3 we have
the word book so at this point we can
start combining things I also need to
acknowledge that this example was
created using the NLT case software so
let's look at the next few lines in the
chart so all them have as the left-hand
side 0 to 0 so at this point we are
hypothesizing every possible who in the
grammar s goes to NP VP as goes to
auxiliary noun phrase verb phrase and so
on and we're putting the stars to the
left of everything on the right hand
side of the production because we
haven't seen anything yet at this point
from the input string so in other words
the first of the bold-faced items here s
goes to period or star in this case an
NPV P tells us that we can potentially
obtain a sentence if later on we found
exactly the noun phrase and a verb
phrase in that order ok so now the next
set of entries in the table have to deal
with a 1 after the column so what that
means is that we have process the first
word take so there are several things
that can happen for example the first
bold-faced item here
gives us their Oh for V goes to take
star so the old entry was V goes to star
take and this one is V goes to take star
what that means is that we have already
identified a word called take that is
consistent with the verb and we don't
need to find any additional words to
complete this particular production so V
take from zero to one is acceptable
another thing that we can do with take
is to replace VP with the V star what
that means is that we have a verb so far
and in order to complete a verb phrase
we need to stop we can stop right away
because it's one of the rules in the
grammar is that the verb face can just
turn into a verb now the another who
about verb phrases is the one that says
that verb phrase goes to verb noun
phrase so this one we cannot complete at
this point because we have only seen the
verb therefore we put in the chart the
entry VP goes to V star and P indicating
that we have seen the verb and we yet
have to look for a noun phrase to
complete the verb phrase
now when the canal start rules that
start at position 1 so the last two
lines on the slide indicates a also 1 1
NP goes to stop or noun that means that
if we find a pawn on starting at
position 1 we will have found a noun
phrase that starts in position 1 and
then if you continue doing this you will
get the full parts of the sentence so
just to give you some examples here the
last three lines on the right hand side
the first one of them tells us that we
have a verb phrase that starts at
position 0 that's before the first word
and ends in position 3 which is after
the last word and that verb phrase
consists of a verb and a noun phrase
both of which we have seen already and
we don't need to do anything additional
to find the verb phrase the star is at
the end of the string we also know at
this point that we have a sentence which
consists of a verb phrase and that verb
phrase has already been seen and if you
think of those two examples they're
pretty obvious so one of those
corresponds to the interpretation of
take this book as
verb phrase and the other one
corresponds to take this book as a
sentence and now the last line on the
right hand side tells us also that it's
possible that take this book is just the
beginning of a longer verb phrase and to
complete this other word phrase we would
need to find an additional prepositional
phrase in the input now the problem is
that there are no other words left to
parse therefore this last who VP goes to
V P star P P is never going to be
completed since we have reached the end
of the input string we can stop and the
two parses that we have are the ones
shown in the second and third to last
lines so again it's either a verb phrase
take this book or sentence take this
book and the one we want is the one that
gives us an S so the final output of the
early parser is s that consists of a
verb phrase that consists of a noun
phrase and a verb so this was an example
of the early parser both the early
parser and the CKY parsing have some
disadvantages that we need to address by
using completely different techniques
this is what I'm going to talk about
next so the new topic is issues with
context-free grammars so the methods
that we looked at so far CKY and early a
both dynamic programming based using
context-free grammars we saw that they
have some differences but they also have
some shared problems so one of them is
the problem of agreement agreement
happens a lot in English and in other
languages for example we want to make
sure that in a sentence the noun phrase
and the verb phrase agree in number so
we if the subject is Chan which is a
single person who what the verb to be is
which is singular if the subject is
people which is a plural noun we want
the verb to be plural as well we don't
want combinations such as people is or
Chan are we can similarly have agreement
for person so I am is a first-person
example Chan is is a third example
third-person example tense Chan was
reading versus Chan is reading versus
Chan will be reading we want to make
sure that this agreement in the tens of
the
and us and then case in some languages
is also problem for example in English
there's not much of it but other
languages such as German and Russian and
Greek have agreement for case and gender
is again not much of a problem in
English but other languages such as
French and Spanish in German I have very
significant issues with the gender
agreement so we want the way to deal
with this problem is to incorporate
special rules in the grammar that allow
us to do agreement it turns out however
that this needs to come in at or
explosion as you will see in the next
few examples so we want to do this if
you want to do this the most simple way
we have to create some special non
terminals that can express agreement so
instead of having a rule that says s
goes to noun phrase verb phrase we can
create a new that says s goes to first
person singular noun phrase followed by
first person singular verb phrase this
who is going to work very well it will
make sure that we have agreement but if
we want it to work well we have to
create many goals of this nature for
example we can have a separate rule for
second person singular a rule for third
person singular and similarly for
plurals and so on then we also have to
expand this idea to the other
constituents so in order to get first
person singular nouns we have to create
rules that say first person singular
noun phrase goes to first person
singular noun and so on and so forth and
as you can see this leads to a very
serious case of combinatorial explosion
and this is not the right way to do
agreement in grammars another issue
other than agreement is subcategories
ation frames so if we have a rule that
says that s goes to NP VP and that VP
goes - verb V P goes to auxiliary verb V
P goes to verb noun phrase and so on if
we follow the context-free principle of
the grammar we're going to see problems
because different verbs have different
sub categories ation frames they take
different sets of arguments so some
verbs take just the direct object for
example the dog ate a sausage the verb
here is ate and there's only one direct
object
a sausage so the grammar would have a
roll that says V P goes to verb noun
phrase this is particular for the verb
eat another example is verbs that take
prepositional phrases as arguments for
example Mary left the car in the garage
so in this case left takes a direct
object the car but it also takes an
indirect object in the garage and we
have to allow this in the grammar a
third example is the predicative
adjective so for example the
receptionist looked worried so worried
in this case is an adjective the verb is
looked and the verb looked happens to
take the predicative adjective as its
argument another example would be the
receptionist looked angry some verbs
take bear infinitives as their arguments
for example she helped me buy this place
here's some more examples verbs that
take two infinitives as the argument the
girl wanted to be alone so again the
verb entry for this type of verb would
have verb phrase goes to verb followed
by a to infinitive or phase another
category is verbs that take participial
phrases for example he state crying
after the movie ended so stay takes in
this case a participative phrase as its
argument that that clause Ravi doesn't
believe that it were gained two more so
the verb belief takes an entire that
closed at its argument and finally we
have question form closes who's that
poor she wondered where to go so
wondered takes as its argument a
question form clause that starts with a
WH word such as where to go CF GS make a
lot of independence assumptions as well
so for example oh and PS I have the
following distribution if you look at
the penn treebank 11% of noun phrases
get expanded into a sequence of noun
phrases and prepositional phrases 9% get
expanded into determiners fold by noun
phrases and 6% get expanded to
prepositions however if you look at noun
phrases under s the top level of the
sentence 9 percent our noun phrase
prepositional phrase 9 percent a
determiner noun and a whole 21 percent
prepositions if you look at the noun
phrases under verb phrases you will see
that the distribution is very different
only four percent there are prepositions
whereas a full twenty three percent are
a noun phrase prepositional phrase and
seven percent a determiner now so this
tells us that the whole idea of
context-free grammars is rather flawed
because the assumption there was that
this noun phrase would look exactly the
same way whether it's under a verb
phrase or another under another noun
phrase or under the sentence level and
as you can see from this data this is
not the case so we have to be able to
model this sort of dependence of the
structure of the noun phrase on the
overall context so this example was
actually given by Dan Klein and it was
computed from the penn treebank data set
so what a possible solution to this
problem of independence is to use
something called the lexicalized
grammars we're going to talk about
lexicalized grammars later I just want
to give your heads up their grammars
where the productions don't just look at
the syntactic categories such as noun
phrases and verb phrases they look at
the heads of the syntactic category so
for example you can have rules about
noun phrases but only if the head noun
is equal to the word cat so to conclude
this segment syntax helps us understand
the meaning of a sentence but it doesn't
give us the meaning itself so it can
tell us that if the sentences Bob gave
Alice a flower Bob is the subject or the
giver of the action and we can answer
questions such as who gave a flower to
Alice or what did Bob Bob give to Alice
another interesting observation is that
context-free grammars are an appropriate
representation for syntactic information
within some limits and that dynamic
programming is needed for efficient
parse as you saw from CKY and early
parser it takes typically a cubic time
to find one parse and it takes an
exponential amount of time to find all
parses and my question to you is why why
do you think that you need an
exponential time to find all parses the
answer is pretty obvious
so the question was why does it take an
exponential amount of time to find all
the parcels even though it only takes a
cubic amount of time to find a single
part well the answer is very very
obvious because the number of parcels
can be exponential itself so no matter
what algorithm you use the fact that
there is an exponential number of
parcels for example by attaching you
know a long sequence of prepositional
phrases in many different ways
tells us that you cannot do faster than
exponential so this is the end of this
segment in the next segment we are going
to talk about a very important resource
for building parsers specifically the
penty back